C# 6.0 feature: collection (index) initializers, and extension add method for initializers. (#8)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/expressions.md

    ;
```

> An object initializer consists of a sequence of member initializers, enclosed by `{` and `}` tokens and separated by commas. Each *member_initializer* shall designate a target for the initialization. An *identifier* shall name an accessible field or property of the object being initialized, whereas an *argument_list* enclosed in square brackets shall specify arguments for an accessible indexer on the object being initialized. It is an error for an object initializer to include more than one member initializer for the same field or property.

Reviewer: Right - that would make sense, but let's check it with Rex.

> An object initializer consists of a sequence of member initializers, enclosed by `{` and `}` tokens and separated by commas. Each *member_initializer* shall designate a target for the initialization. An *identifier* shall name an accessible field or property of the object being initialized, whereas an *argument_list* enclosed in square brackets shall specify arguments for an accessible indexer on the object being initialized. It is an error for an object initializer to include more than one member initializer for the same field or property.

Reviewer 2: Given it’s an error if the same field or property is initialised twice then yes something should be said about indexers – but what are the rules? Are the *argument_list*’s required to be distinct (as with fields/properties) or can the same indexed value be initialised more than once?

> An object initializer consists of a sequence of member initializers, enclosed by `{` and `}` tokens and separated by commas. Each *member_initializer* shall designate a target for the initialization. An *identifier* shall name an accessible field or property of the object being initialized, whereas an *argument_list* enclosed in square brackets shall specify arguments for an accessible indexer on the object being initialized. It is an error for an object initializer to include more than one member initializer for the same field or property.

Reviewer: Meeting notes: Yes, we want to spell this out, but we can do so in a follow-up PR.

A member initializer that specifies an expression after the equals sign is processed in the same way as an assignment ([§12.18.2](expressions.md#12182-simple-assignment)) to the target.

A member initializer that specifies an object initializer after the equals sign is a ***nested object initializer***, i.e., an initialization of an embedded object. Instead of assigning a new value to the field or property, the assignments in the nested object initializer are treated as assignments to members of the field or property. Nested object initializers cannot be applied to properties with a value type, or to read-only fields with a value type.

A member initializer that specifies a collection initializer after the equals sign is an initialization of an embedded collection. Instead of assigning a new collection to the target field, property or indexer, the elements given in the initializer are added to the collection referenced by the target. The target shall be of a collection type that satisfies the requirements specified in [§12.7.11.4](expressions.md#127114-collection-initializers).

> The arguments to an index initializer shall always be evaluated exactly once. Thus, even if the arguments end up never getting used (e.g., because of an empty nested initializer), they are evaluated for their side effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an initializer target refers to an indexer, the arguments to the indexer shall always be evaluated exactly once. Thus, even if the arguments end up never getting used (e.g., because of an empty nested initializer), they are evaluated for their side effects.
```

(Just to make it easier to accept or fiddle with.)

> The arguments to an index initializer shall always be evaluated exactly once. Thus, even if the arguments end up never getting used (e.g., because of an empty nested initializer), they are evaluated for their side effects.

Reviewer: Meeting notes: yes, let's change that within this PR.

> ```
> *end example*

> The collection object to which a collection initializer is applied shall be of a type that implements `System.Collections.IEnumerable` or a compile-time error occurs. For each specified element in order, the collection initializer invokes an `Add` method on the target object with the expression list of the element initializer as argument list, applying normal member lookup and overload resolution for each invocation. Thus, the collection object shall contain an applicable instance or extension method with the name `Add` for each element initializer.

Reviewer 2: That error message isn't great… but that’s not the concern of the Standard

Suggested alternative wording looks good.

> The collection object to which a collection initializer is applied shall be of a type that implements `System.Collections.IEnumerable` or a compile-time error occurs. For each specified element in order, the collection initializer invokes an `Add` method on the target object with the expression list of the element initializer as argument list, applying normal member lookup and overload resolution for each invocation. Thus, the collection object shall contain an applicable instance or extension method with the name `Add` for each element initializer.

Reviewer: Resolving with later suggestion.

> ```
> *end example*

> The collection object to which a collection initializer is applied shall be of a type that implements `System.Collections.IEnumerable` or a compile-time error occurs. For each specified element in order, the collection initializer invokes an `Add` method on the target object with the expression list of the element initializer as argument list, applying normal member lookup and overload resolution for each invocation. Thus, the collection object shall contain an applicable instance or extension method with the name `Add` for each element initializer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The collection object to which a collection initializer is applied shall be of a type that implements `System.Collections.IEnumerable` or a compile-time error occurs. For each specified element in order, normal member lookup is applied to find a member named `Add`. If the result of the member lookup is not a method group, a compile-time error occurs. Otherwise, overload resolution is applied with the expression list of the element initializer as the argument list, and the collection initializer invokes the resulting method. Thus, the collection object shall contain an applicable instance or extension method with the name `Add` for each element initializer.
```

An *await_expression* is only allowed in the body of an async function ([§15.15](classes.md#1515-async-functions)). Within the nearest enclosing async function, an *await_expression* shall not occur in these places:

-   Inside a nested (non-async) anonymous function

> -   In a `catch` or `finally` block of a *try_statement*

Author: This line should be removed:

```suggestion
```
